Mucosa is moist tissue located
throughout your body,
which produces a thick liquid called mucus.
Phlegm is a specific name for mucus
produced by respiratory mucosa,
the moist tissue lining the airways.
Tiny hair-like projections called cilia
move the mucus upward from the lungs,
through the windpipe or trachea
to the throat area behind the mouth.
This area, called the pharynx,
receives air, food, and liquid.
The respiratory and digestive systems
begin to divide into tubes
connecting with the lungs and stomach
at the larynx, or voicebox.
The larynx is in the neck,
just below the tongue.
Lung mucus either joins with
mucus flowing down from the nasal passages
to enter the esophagus and is swallowed,
or continues up the throat to be spat out.